source/first-draft/03-policy_management_policy.md, before:

# 3. Policy Management Policy

Symptomatic implements policies and procedures to maintain compliance and integrity of data. The Security Officer and Privacy Officer are responsible for maintaining policies and procedures and assuring all Symptomatic workforce members, business associates, customers, and partners are adherent to all applicable policies. Previous versions of policies are [kept in GitHub](https://github.com/symptomatic/policies) to assure ease of finding policies at specific historic dates in time.

## 3.1 Applicable Standards

### 3.1.1 Applicable Standards from the HITRUST Common Security Framework

* 12.c - Developing and Implementing Continuity Plans Including Information Security

### 3.1.2 Applicable Standards from the HIPAA Security Rule

* 164.316(a) - Policies and Procedures
* 164.316(b)(1)(i) - Documentation

## 3.2 Maintenance of Policies

1. All policies are stored and up to date to maintain Symptomatic compliance with HIPAA, HITRUST, NIST, and other relevant standards. Updates and version control are done similar to source code control.

2. Policy update requests can be made by any workforce member at any time. Furthermore, all policies are reviewed annually by both the Security and Privacy Officer to assure they are accurate and up-to-date.

3. Symptomatic employees may request changes to policies using the following process:
  1. The Symptomatic employee initiates a policy change request by creating an [Issue in GitHub project](https://github.com/symptomatic/policies/issues). The change request may optionally include a GitHub pull request from a separate branch or repository containing the desired changes.
  2. The Security Officer or the Privacy Officer is assigned to review the policy change request.
  3. Once the review is completed, the Security Officer approves or rejects the Issue. If the Issue is rejected, it goes back for further review and documentation.
  4. If the review is approved, the Security Officer then Closes the Issue, adding any pertinent notes required.
  5. If the policy change requires technical modifications to production systems, those changes are carried out by authorized personnel using Symptomatic's [change management process (§9.4)](#9.4-changing-existing-systems).

4. All policies are made accessible to all Symptomatic workforce members. The current master policies are published at [https://github.com/symptomatic/policies](https://github.com/symptomatic/policies).
   * Changes are automatically communicated to all Symptomatic team members of the Symptomatic GitHub Organization.
   * The Security Officer also communicates policy changes to all employees via email. These emails include a high-level description of the policy change using terminology appropriate for the target audience.

5. All policies, and associated documentation, are retained for 6 years from the date of its creation or the date when it last was in effect, whichever is later
   1. Version history of all Symptomatic policies is done via GitHub.
   2. Backup storage of all policies is done with DropBox and/or Google Docs.

Additional documentation related to maintenance of policies is outlined in [§5.3.1](#5.3-security-officer).

Commit message:

use github for policy management

source/first-draft/03-policy_management_policy.md, after:

# 3. Policy Management Policy

Symptomatic implements policies and procedures to maintain compliance and integrity of data. The Security Officer and Privacy Officer are responsible for maintaining policies and procedures and assuring all Symptomatic workforce members, business associates, customers, and partners are adherent to all applicable policies. Previous versions of policies are [kept in GitHub](https://github.com/symptomatic/policies) to assure ease of finding policies at specific historic dates in time.

## 3.1 Applicable Standards

### 3.1.1 Applicable Standards from the HITRUST Common Security Framework

* 12.c - Developing and Implementing Continuity Plans Including Information Security

### 3.1.2 Applicable Standards from the HIPAA Security Rule

* 164.316(a) - Policies and Procedures
* 164.316(b)(1)(i) - Documentation

## 3.2 Maintenance of Policies

1. All policies are stored and up to date to maintain Symptomatic compliance with HIPAA, HITRUST, NIST, and other relevant standards. Updates and version control are managed with GitHub, similar to source code control.

2. Policy update requests can be made by any workforce member at any time. Furthermore, all policies are reviewed annually by both the Security and Privacy Officer to assure they are accurate and up-to-date.

3. Symptomatic employees may request changes to policies using the following process:
  1. The Symptomatic employee initiates a policy change request by creating an [Issue in GitHub project](https://github.com/symptomatic/policies/issues). The change request may optionally include a GitHub pull request from a separate branch or repository containing the desired changes.
  2. The Security Officer or the Privacy Officer is assigned to review the policy change request.
  3. Once the review is completed, the Security Officer approves or rejects the Issue. If the Issue is rejected, it goes back for further review and documentation.
  4. If the review is approved, a pull request (PR) is generated, the policy uodated, and the issue is closed.  
  5. If the policy change requires technical modifications to production systems, those changes are carried out by authorized personnel using Symptomatic's [change management process (§9.4)](#9.4-changing-existing-systems).

4. All policies are made accessible to all Symptomatic workforce members. The current master policies are published at [https://github.com/symptomatic/policies](https://github.com/symptomatic/policies).
   * Changes are automatically communicated to all Symptomatic team members of the Symptomatic GitHub Organization who are subscribed to the Policies repository.
   * The Security Officer also communicates policy changes to all employees via email. These emails include a high-level description of the policy change using terminology appropriate for the target audience.

5. All policies, and associated documentation, are retained for 6 years from the date of its creation or the date when it last was in effect, whichever is later
   1. Version history of all Symptomatic policies is done via GitHub.
   2. Backup storage of all policies is done with DropBox and/or Google Docs.

Additional documentation related to maintenance of policies is outlined in [§5.3.1](#5.3-security-officer).
